Prologue

**Where it is very cold/A cow has a limp/The sale of the farm is discussed/Someone wins a price**

Cold air blew into the room as he opened the hallway door. "The cow have their food and I've cleared most of the snow." He said rubbing his hands together to get a bit of warmth back into them. The old man sat down heavily at the table. His wife was at the counter preparing breakfast. From the stove she got the coffeepot and filled his mug. "Drink, warm up." "It seems colder every year" he said as she put the basket with bread on the table and sat down herself. Outside it was still dark. She knew there were snow covered mountains all around.

She saw how it hurt him to pick up the warm mug with his cold hands. From the basket she took a bun, cut it and put cheese between the halves. "Clara had something wrong with her feet this morning. I'll call Heinz later and see if he has time to come and take a look at her." It was allways the cow's named Clara that had trouble with walking. She smiled as she tought it might be something in the name. "You sure you want to call him out in this weather? It can't be easy for him to get out here." "It'll be fine. I know he does not just want to sit at home." They finished their meal and she cleared the table. Dieter went back into the cold to do some work in his workshop.

Heinz went into the house after taking a look at the limping cow. Although he found it was nothing serious Dieter still wanted to stay in the stables. Keeping watch. "Hallo?" He yelled in the hallway. "Come in, come in." Grethe called back from the front kitchen. He found his own mug allready waithing for him on the kitchen table. As he sat down Grethe was hobbeling around getting the milk and sugar and putting some cookies on a plate. The mug had a small chip on the rim from when he had dropped it years ago. Since then it was his mug and it had been standing, waiting for him as he came by. "How is Clara?" she asked, sitting down. "She will be fine. A bit of trouble with het hoove. It will heal. She is just getting a bit older." As we all are he thought looking across the table and feeling his cold toes.

"We have put the farm up for sale" She said after they had been sitting for a while. He kept on looking at the yard and nodded. "It was time. The children do not want to take over and we are having more and more trouble keeping up." she continued as he took another sip of his coffee. "How is Dieter feeling about it?" Heinz asked. "I think he accepts it. It is not his family that has had it for so many years." Now he looked at Grethe. "And you?" Silence for a bit. "It will take me some time, I think." She said with a sigh. "Times have changed. And we can't force the childeren to do something they don't want to do. Especially in these times." She looked outside. "They both have good jobs and a life in the city." Heinz nodded again. "There is a reason your farm was the last in the valley."

They sat for a while in silence finishing their coffee. Afterwards Heinz went back outside looking for Dieter. He found him, still in the stable looking at his cows. He got another stool from a corner and sat down as well. The air in the stable was warmed by the cows making it almost warm inside. Picking his glasses off his nose he cleaned them on his shirt. "You've heard about the sale from Grethe? Heinz nodded his glasses still in hand Dieters face a blur. "It is hard on her. The family has been farming here for at least four generations. I only came in later when we married." Putting his glasses back on Heinz replied. "I think you took good care of it. Farming is getting harder and harder around here. It takes a young person to grow the business." Dieter smiled. Fifteen cows and a few fields were enough to feed a family and make us happy."

"I've won. I really won!" Laying in bed the tought kept me awake. The wining ticked on the nightstand right next to me. I was happy they let me keep it. Maybe I should have it framed. This and other thought just kept running on. Today it had all become real. First the champagne and congratulations and forms and advice about accountants and banking. Then the ride back home. First class in the train, for the first time. My debit card somehow feeling heavier in my pocket. After the weekend I will quit my job. Then a vacation for a while. Just sit in the sun and think about what I want to do. And after that. Maybe a litte farm. And thinking about the green fields and riding around on tractors I finally fell asleep.

# Chapter 1
**Where we arrive by train/Drive in a small yellow car/Take a first look at the farm**

The train was slowing down. Around us the valley was opening up. On one side there still were steep cliffs but on the other the mountains went further away. Grass meadows appeared. "Erlengrad, Nachste halt, Erlengrad Bahnhof." A voice announced over the speakers. The cliffs on the left side made room for the village. A loading platform with a small road leading further into the mountain and then appartments next to the road. As we slowed to a stop I stood up and picked up my bag. The train came to a halt. Though the open doors I stepped onto the platform. The hot air hit me as I left the airconditioned train. Behind me the doors beeped and closed. I was still looking around as the train drove off again. A few other people had gotten off the train with me. I folllowed hem up the stairs and over the bridge across the tracks.

Most of the people went left to the parking lot as they got off the stairs. I followed them. As I was looking around they got into a small van. Their driver packing luggage into the back. A small man walked up to me. "John?" He asked as he reached out to shake my hand. "I'm Dieter, we talked on the phone." I moved my back to my other hand and we shook hands. He was a lot smaller than me. Balding, with his hair combed over the bald spot in the middle. Tanned and skinny. He dit look old but wiry and his grip felt crushing. "Follow me, lets get to the Doschwo" On the last parking space a small yellow car was waiting for us. Dieter opened the trunk of the ugly duckling. My bag only just fitting inside. I slit onto my chair. Dieter getting in next to me. Our elbows allmost touching. But it was clean inside and the engine did start the first try.

Dieter backed out of the parking spot and put the car in first. Smoothly we drove away the engine reving up. "I would give you a tour of the town but I think you really want to see the farm." I nodded. "There is not much to see anyway." He continued. At the roundabout he took a right around the station. Across the river we stopped for a stop sign before turning left following the water. On the right a couple of houses. Then right at the roundabout. "This is not the fastes way from town but this way we can see the whole farm. The engine was working hard. The road going steep uphill. "The houses here are vacation homes or small bread and breakfasts. There used to be small farms here but they are all gone. Curve after cuve we went higher up the hill. Then a left at another roundabout. More traditional houses. At a field just past them Dieter stopped the car right in the road. "Here on the right is our high field. Behind those tree are the house and the farmyard."

A grassy field with mountainflowers with a small wooden fence in the middle. "To the right of that fence is our neighbours field. A farm from the next village over maintains it for him." On our, my, side of the fence the field lay next to a dense forest with spruce and a few leafy trees. I could see nothting of the farm. Dieter put the car back in gear and we drove on. On the right we passed a small road. A white and red barrier blocking access. "The rear entrance of the farm. We will go around." Dieter said. We were going downhill now. The road pretty steep. At the bottom we were back at the road next to the river. A right turn. "The field next to you is also part of the farm. In between the trees you can just see some of the farmbuildings." I did catch a glimpse of a wooden roof in between the needle trees. Another turn. On our right more trees and left a field of grain. Golden, ready to harvest. "That plot is farmed by the farmer in the next valley. The manage most of the flat fields between the town and the lake." "Hold on we have to keep our speed high to get up here."

With a bump, the springs squeaking, me holding on and Dieter shifting down we drove into another small road. Steep uphill. In a flash a saw white fences around a field with a few cows. Even with the run-up the car almost did not make it to the top. Dieter had to put it into first gear the engine working hard to make it the last few meters. Past another barrier, fortunately open and coming to a stop in front of a classic swiss wooden house. I looked around as I got out of the car. The house was three stories high with a sloped roof. The woord part was build on the concrete first floor. To get to the door you had to use a small concrete stair. Next to the house was an old barn with tractors inside. I caught a glimpse of the red Linder and a wheel that could only be of the Bruhrer was just visible next to it. Everything was like the pictures. The stable across the house and the sheds a bit further out in the yard. "You will get the grand tour later. Grethe is waiting for us." I followed Dieter up the stairs into the house.

In the hallway there were another couple of steps to get up to the door of the kitchen. Dieter pointed to a steep stairway right next to the entrance. "Those lead right into the basement." He went up the steps, opened the door and motioned me into the kitchen. The room cool and pretty dark. The small windows not letting in a lot of light from outside. An old woman was working at the countertop in front of the windows. She looked up when we walked in. "Sit, sit. I'll be right there. You drink coffe, right?" I nodded and took a seat at the table while lookin around. Dark wooden walls. Pictures on every free space. The table had four seats and Dieter sat down across from me. The woman had finished what she was doing and put a small basket on the table. I stood up and we shook hands. "I'm Grethe, welcome to the farm. Please take some cake. I'm sure you are hungry after the trip." I sat back down and took a slice of cake from the basket. Grethe got my coffee and a couple of small plates for the cake. The cake was not too sweet and very compact. More like sweet bread than the cake I was used to. Dieter and Grethe put some jam on theirs and I copied them.

After we had sat for a while and I finished my coffee Dieter was ready to show me around the farm. We went back outside and took a door at the side of the house. Directly behind the door where steep stairs to the first floor. Dieter climbed up and I followed. He paused on the landing pointing at stairs going even further up "If you go up there in the attic are the rooms for our children. They visit every now and then and usually sleep over." I had seen their children in the photographs in the kitchen. A boy and a girl. The boy being the older one. No idea how old they were now. My appartment took up the first floor. Most of the room was for the kichen and living room combination. The walls were freshly painted. Windows on all sides made it pretty bright. At the front I could look out on the yard and at the back I could see trees and the mountain in the distance. A small dinner table,and a lounge set made it pretty comfortable. The long wall on the far side had three doors. Two led to smaller rooms. The one in the corner allready having a bed and closets. The other one still empty. Behind the last door was a pretty big bathroom. I even had a bath, right next to one of the windows. "We had this build in case one of the children wanted to take over the farm. We could live downstairs and they could have their privacy."

Back outside Dieter took me for a tour around the rest of the farmyard. In the stable cows were standing happily eating their hay. We have got our Holsteins inside and the Brown-Swiss are in the field next to the entrance. We used to let them roam free but it was too much work for us. From the stable we went to the barn. "That is your car." A shiny bright yellow old MB van with flatbed stood in the first of three big bays. "It is not fast but we use it to carry all sort of stuff around. Never let us down." The next two bays had the tractors in them. The other buildings were a chicken shed, without chikens and two half empty storage sheds. The first one with doors and the other with an open front. Made of concrete en metal painted green. At the other side of the yard Dieter showed me the manure and slurry pit. We walked to the back of the yard. "There you can see the back entrance we passed this afternoon." Next to it was a wooden building. Open on all sides en the inside packed with crates and other stuff. "Whats in there?" I asked. "That used to be our sawmill. Must be a couple of years since we last used it. Now it is just storage for some old things. There is a new saw somewhere in there though. Might be worth selling." Talking we arrived at the last shed. "Here we keep the feed for the cows." One of the bays had a couple of bales of hay. The other bays standing empty.

"Everything is looking really good." I said to Dieter. "Clean and almost new." "It better" He replied. "A few years ago the children were thinking about taking over. We used our savings to restore old sheds and build the new cow barn. The deal fell through though. We've done our best to keep everything nice." "And yellow" I added. "Ach ja, the yellow." Dieter looked out at the mountains his accent suddenly stronger. We were almost back at the house. "It is her favourite color. For a while everything had to be yellow. We got used to it." We stood in front of the house for a bit. "You can take the van for a little ride if you want to. The keys are hanging on the wall right next to it." "I'll wait." I responded. "I have some unpacking to do." Dieter pointed at the garage door in the barn. "Your boxes and other things are in there. We can call you when dinner is ready. If you would like to eat with us." He looked questioningly at me. "Yes please, I would like to." I was still carrying my boxes up when they called me for dinner. Grethe had set the kitchentable for three. As we sat down I found a ring with keys next to my plate. "The keys to the farm and all the buildings." Dieter said. "I know it is not official until tomorrow. But this did seem like the right time. We can talk about everything else tomorrow." He raised his glass. "Prost! To the next chapter at this farm." We raised our glasses. Afther that we ate in without talking. The food was good but I felt that they were in no mood for conversation. The silence unconfortable.

After the food was gone Dieter got up. "Time to feed our cows." I started to raise but he at me to sit down. "Tomorrow, today is the last day we can do this." Het walked outside and Grethe started to clear the table and ran water to wash the plates. "It is difficult." She said looking out the window. "This is the best solution but it's not what we hoped for." Outside Dieter had put on his overalls and was at the yellow Bruhrer. He got on and started the engine. Slowly he drove the machine out of the shed stopping in front of the house. Grethe stepped out of the house and he reached out to her. With his help she got on the tractor and sat down on the fender. Dieter put the machine in gear and they drove off across the yard. Turning around I went back to my appartment and continued unpacking. It had gotten dark when I heard the tractor coming back.

#Hoofdstuk 2
**Where we wake up on our own farm/Feed the cows/Go to the supermarket/Drive a tractor for the first time/Make our first bales**

My alarm woke me op. The room was still pretty dark and for a few seconds I wondered where I was. Then I remembered. My own room at my own farm. Today would be the first day of my new life. As I opened the curtains the room got a bit lighter. The sky was blue but the sun was still hidden behind the mountains. This was something I would have to get used to. It was pretty cold in the room. Something else that was different. I put on my clothes and went into the kitchen to drink some water. The fridge was still empty. No breakfast for me. Today I would have to take a trip to the supermarket in town. Going back to my bedroom I took a overall from its plastic wrap and put it on. At the bottom of the stairs I put on my workboots. Outside Dieter was allready waiting for me. "Morgen" "Morgen" I replied. Dieter started the Lindner and went to the rear shed to get a bale of hay. I stood there trying to wake up. After a bit he came back with the bale in the grabber at the front of the tractor. The door was already open so he drove straight in and put the bale down. The cows came up to the fence for some fresh food. We unwrapped the bale and spread the hay in the trough. I was not cold anymore. It was hard work picking up and moving the hay around. Careful not to hit the noses of the cows I moved the hay up to the fence with the pitchfork.

With this first job done Dieter went back to get another bale. Coming back he pointed at the water trailer that was standing next to the well. I went and stood next to it. Backing up he opened the rear window. "Guide me to connect." he yelled. I waved him back until the hitch was inside the two holes. Then I put the pin in to connect. Dieter got out the cab and was watching. I connected the power lead and breaklines. As I stepped back Dieter said "Don't forget the safety pin." I looked and at the top of the drawbar was a small chain connecting to an even smaller pin. As I was looking around where to put in Dieter just wachted. I found a small hole at the bottom of the drawbar, just below the lower eye. As I put it in he nodded. "That will keep the main pin from jumping out. Het got back in and I walked ahead of the tractor. As I opened the gate the cows kept a little distance from us. The bale was dropped in the field and he backed the trailer up to one of the water throughs. I watched as he put a hose into a square box with metal grating and started the pump. We waited until the box was filled and did the same at another trough. The cows had allready started on the hay. Grabbing mouthfuls straight from the bale. We unrolled the bale, the cows watching and spread the hay out. "Don't they have grass?" I asked. "It is a bit of an extra for them. Keeps them happy and makes sure they do not eat all the grass in the field." I was covered in hay and dirt while Dieters overall was clean. He went to park the trailer and tractor while I closed the gate. Back at the house we discussed what to do the rest of the day. The next few days would be dry so we could make hay. We had to wait for the dew to dissapear before we could get started.

"I have to get food and some other things first." I told Dieter. He followed me to the barn with the truck. I found the keys hanging from a nail in the wall. The yellow car was unlocked. "This feels more like a truck than a van to me." I said. "That is because it can be. If we change the springs and have it inspected we can carry a lot more." Dieter grinned "The inspection is offcourse not neccesary to make ik carry more, just to make it legal. But this has been enough the past years." He leaned in the window as I was putting my seatbelt on. "It is warm enough so no choke needed. You should drive away in second gear. First is only for heavy loads or when you pull a trailer." I turned the key in the ignition and the truck fired right up. Then I had to search a bit for second gear. Press the clutch, feel around. Let go a bit and there it is. Dieter stepped back from the window and waved. "Have fun." I gave it a bit of gas and slowly let go of the clutch. Slowly it started driving and I went right to the exit of the yard. And downhill. The road down was very steep. Panicked I pushed on the breaks to slow down and came to a stop just before the road. A deep breath and then I took a left turn in the direction of the main road.

"First turn into town, Across the bridge and then left at the roundabout." With these directions I had soon found the supermarket. A few people on the way had raised their hand in greeting. Looking suprised when they saw who was driving the truck. Some people must not have heard about the farm. At the supermarket I parked begind the building. Trying to get as much out of the way as possible. The van did not fit in a normal parking space. Inside the market it was not what I expected. Instead of the organised supermarkets back at home this was a mess. Crates with vegetables and fruit were standing in the middle of the aisles. Some of the shelves were half empty with a few jars of jam or honey. And in the back there was something like a hardware store with planks, tools and even some furniture. I was looking around, the plan to get the food forgotten. Next to the hardware I saw a bakery section. Bread first the rest I could find later. At the checkout a man with greying hair scanned my groceries. I tried my best German. "Sind these lokale producten?" He looked up from scanning. "Yes, a lot of them are. We support local farmers and craftsmen." "Danke schon. I said as I took my groceries and walked towards the exit. At the car I had a new problem. Could I put the bags in the rear or would they fly off? In the end I put them in the cabine in front of the passenger seat. Back at the farm reversing into the bay was pretty easy and I could finally eat my breakfast.

After eating it was time for the first tractor driving lesson. The Bruhrer was allready parked in front of the house, facing the chicken coop. I clambered up and Dieter sat down next to me. "It is allmost like driving a car." He grinned. "Just different enough to trip you up." He pointed at the pedal to the left. "Clutch" Then the long black pedal in just to the right. "Brake. If you panic. Press those two. Nothing else." At the bottom almost under my seat was a gearshifter. "That does not shift the gears." he pointed at another shifter just in front of me. "That does. The other leaver lets you pick the gear group. Reverse and low, medium and high. Higher gear group, less power but more speed. Is that clear?" I nodded even though I was not sure it was clear. "Ok, Press the clutch and start the tractor." I did this. It felt like a lot more noise sitting in the drivers seat than just watching. Put the tractor in the low range and first gear. "Is that the gas?" I asked pointing at a small pedal on the far right. "Yes, and we will not be using that." One question from me and more questions than answers. Maybe I shoud just listen. So I put the machine in low and first. "Now with your right hand you can rev the engine with that leaver." I saw a small leaver with a black knob at the end. As I pulled it the engine made more noise. "Good, pick a speed of the engine you like and slowly let off the clutch." I did as I was told and the tractor started to roll. The machine made a lot of noise for going this slow. "One and one is crawl speed. A lot of power and noise. Not much speed.

I felt a big smile on my face. The first time driving a tractor, my own tractor. "You can shift from first to third now." I pushed in the clutch and shifted. "Well done. You don't need to change the speed of the engine." We did go a bit faster. "I think you are ready for reverse." As I looked up I noticed the chicken coop was suddenly very close. Fumbeling for the gas lever I pressed down on the clutch and brake. We stopped. Still well clear of the wall but with no room to turn. "Grab the lower lever and put it in reverse. Just stay in third gear." I did as Dieter said en slowly backed up. "I think you got it. Just practice some more around the yard. Remember, this tractor is older than you." He got off and went into the house. The next hour I drove around the yard. Going faster and faster. I even tried connecting to the water tank we left next to the well. You could pick any gear and drive off. Soon I also used the food trottle to pick up some more speed after starting to move. The sun had come out from behind the mountain and I was happily driving in the warmt of the sun. When i felt I had got the hang of it I reversed into the shed and switched the machine off. Grehe called me inside for a cup of coffee. I just sat at the table smiling the whole time. After tea me and Dieter went mowing in the Lindner. I sat next to him as he manouvered the mower over the fields leaving neat swaths behind the tractor. That afternoon we milked and fed the cows together. The next day my body was sore all over. Pain in all my muscles. But the cows were hungry and the grass had to be tedded. So I got up and went to work.

# Chapter 2
**Where we have some ideas for the future/Visit a tractor dealer/Do maintenance/Talk about changes**

It was getting colder in the mornings. The days were still warm but it took me a bit longer to get warm feeding the cows. I even had had to use the choke on the Burher one or two times the past week. We even had to switch on the lights in the yard on more overcast days. The sun not giving enough light anymore. After the work was done I went inside. The door to my computer room was left open and I looked at the empty desk and boxes standing around. Maybe I would have some time and energy for that in the winter. Cold air was coming from the room so I closed the door. With my breakfast I sat down at the dinner table and opened my laptop. Dieter had given me access to the farms finances and explained how it all worked. The last few days I had been looking trough the numbers and it was clear to me something had to change. We had made a deal when I just took over the farm. I would pay Dieter for his time and he would teach me how to run a farm. I don't think they needed the money but I would not be fair to give him nothing for all the things he did. I had put allmost all the money I had won in the farm and had very little left. But as I had been working all the time there had also been no time to spend any money. With no rent and no debt on the farm I could live like this for a while longer if that was what I really wanted. The money would run out and I'd have to do everything myself earning just enough to eat and drink.

I would forever be just one sick cow or broken tractor away from troubles. The cows could be a solution. Every year they sold the calves. If we kept them and grew them we would have more milk and more calves the next year. Dieter and Grethe had stopped with the chickens because they were to much work for them. The coop was still there and ready for some chickens. I had allready seen that the supermarket sold local eggs and maybe Dieter knew a buyer for them. A little bit more work in de morning was not a problem for me. I also planned to do some research into feed for cows and a way to get paid more for the milk. Maybe there was a way to make more money there. Where I came from they would put the grass in a pit or make bales. Would that make the cows give more milk? I sat wondering and opened up my laptop to do some research. Maybe silage bales could be sold somewere. The shed was allready pretty full with hay for the winter and next month we would get another cut off the gras fields. As I was working on these questions Dieter opened the door downstairs and yelled to me. "I am going to the tractor dealer to get some parts. Do you want to come along?" Slamming the laptop shut I yelled back that I wanted to and ran down the stairs. We both got in their little car and Dieter drove us into town.

We soon got to the dealership in town and parked the car. It was inside a big building at the edge of town right next to the chocolate factory. Fendt and Class banners waving in the wind. A couple of second hand and some new tractors standing in the lot. Dieter took me on a tour of the machines. He stopped next to a dark blue tractor. A strange machine, no bonnet just a frame with arms on the front. "A Fendt GTA" He said climbing up to look in the cab. "A farm nearby had one of these. I thought about buying one for forestry. Beautiful color too." He did not really look at the newer machines but I went over and walked around some of them. In the rear we found some more second hand machinery. I knew most of them from my farming game. It all felt a lot bigger in real life. Dieter went inside. I hung around a bit more to look at the tractors. Still thinking about the calculations from this morning. A man found me looking at a small Claas tractor. "Go ahead. It should be open." He said. I climbed inside and sat down behind the wheel. The man following and siting down on the passenger seat. The next few minutes he explained the buttons and functions on the brand new machine. As we were talking Dieter came back outside with a big box. The box went into the back seat and he leaned on the car waiting for us to finish. "I don't know how this works, but can I reserve the Fendt GTA?" I asked the salesman. "I can call you if someone wants to buy it, but we don't do reserve." I nodded and gave him my phone number before we got out the cab. Dieter and I got in the car and drove back to the farm.

Dieter parked next to the maintenance shed. He opened the roll-up door as I got the box from the back seat. Inside the Linder was allreading waiting for us. The hood up and engine exposed. Dieter walked up to a shelve in the rear of the shed. On it stood and lay books, binders and other paperwork. He reached for somethings in there and came back with a binder and a paperback book. The binder went on the workbench and the book he gave to me. Lindtrack 130 maintenance manual was printed on the front together with a pretty picture of the tractor. "In the box is a new air filter. How about you find out where it goes and replace the old one?" I opened the book and quickly flipped trough the pages and pages of tractor parts and instructions. Meanwhile Dieter cut open the box and put some other parts on the workbench. I found an old chair in a corner and started at the table of contents. For a while we worked in silence. I found the location of the airfilter and opened the protective cover. Inside the box the filter was very dusty. As I got it out Dieter just reached out with some workgloves form the box. "For the rest of the work." I put the dirty filter outside and washed my hands before putting on the new gloves. I looked in the book how to install the new filter and close the box after installation. I followed the instructions and got the new parts fitted. On the other side of the tractor Dieter was lubricating the machine with the grease gun.

The installation done I wached Dieter working on the different part of the tractor. After a while I started talking. "I've been looking at the numbers for the farm." He grunted, taking the nipple from one of the lubrication points and cleaning around it with a rag. "In a little while I'll not be able to pay you anymore." "Then you will need to learn quickly." He said. Motioning for me to come closer and pointing at one of front attachment arms. "Watch for wear on this point. I have replaced it a while ago but it is starting to go again." I could see the place the metal had worn away and nodded. "But I still want to hire you so I thing we need to expand the farm." He was silent for a bit. "It is your farm now, so you can do what you want." A pauze. "But remember, the farm is a lot older than you and it has been good to us for a lot of years." That said he went to the workbench and stated writing the maintenance forms in the bider. Then he gave it to me to put it away. On the shelve I found more manuals and maintenance sheets for all of the farm equipment. "I'll take some of these with me to the house to read after were done" I said to Dieter. "Just make sure you put them back in the same place." Replied Dieter. The rest of the afternoon we worked with the grease gun. Going from shed to shed, all the machines one after the other. In the evening after milking and feeding the cows I went back to my home with an arm full of books. To see how much more I still had to learn.

# Chapter 3
**Where we get some new equipment/Get a new tractor/Do not get to mow/Welcome some chickens.**

I heard a truck working hard to make ik up the driveway. Quickly I went outside leaving my breakfast on the table. The large MAN truck just pulled trough the gate into the yard when I got outside. As I said goodmorning to Dieter the driver stopped and got out of the cab. On the trailer sat a couple of red machines strapped down with chains. As the driver started to walk towards Dieter he just pointed to me. "That is not an easy driveway." The driver said and gave me a package of papers. I checked the transport manifest. 3 pieces of machinery, that was correct. Dieter was meanwhile walking around the trailer looking at the new arrivals. "Could you get the tractor to unload them?" I called out to him. With him warming up the tractor the driver and I went to unstrap all machines. We connected the first machine and Dieter slowly drove the Kuhn feeder mixer off the trailer. He reversed it into the workshop and soon came back for the second piece. "No more spreading the straw by hand." I said after we connected the machines. He just grunted and drove the Anderson off the trailer and into the workshop. The last piece was not a trailer but had to be put on the three point. Dieter slowly reversed up to the blue and yellow machine with me guiding him. With a soft metallic sound the lower arms connected. A bit of a twist and the top connected as well so he could pick it up. "You can put this in the garage for now. We wont need it tomorrow. The driver turned the truck around in the yard while we checked that the new machines were new and undamaged. After that I signed for delivery and the truck left. "Coffee?" I said.

Our coffeecups empty Dieter stood up. "We will have to unpack the machines if we want to use them tomorrow." He said. I followed him out the door. In the workshop I went to look for the manuals or unpacking instructions. Nothing in the rear of the Kuhn and the Anderson was empty as well. "The manuals must still be at the dealer." I said. Dieter was sure we would managed but I did not want to get started without knowing what we were doing. It was my first new equipment and he had not used anything just like these before. After I convinced him we got in the van together and went off to the dealer. At the dealer we had to drive around a tractor and trailers standing in the middle of the yard. The Fendt GTA with a Lizard dual axle and on top of that a grey powerwasher trailer and blue bale grab. "It looks like the Fendt got sold." I said to Dieter while parking the van. As we got out one of the mechanics walked up to us. "We did not get the manuals and other paperwork for machines that arrived today." He said as soon as the man got close enough to hear him. "They are in the Fendt." the mechanic answered straight away. Taking the last few steps and handing him the keys. "I'll get them then, why would you put them in there?" The last part of the question getting more quiet. "Because we need them at the farm?" I answered. "You drive that back and I'll take the van." "You did not." He sputtered. "I did. With the chickens, new cows and the sawmill we will need something with a bit of power and reach. And something to clean the machines. I'm getting tired of working with a drizzle of cold water and a sponge." And the trailer? You saw the bale wrapper this morning. We'll need to be able to transport those bales after we made them. "Chikens?" Was all he said. "Tomorrow, now get in our new tractor. We've got work waiting at the farm."

The next morning I hung the new feeder wagon behind the Bruher. Dieter started the Fendt and got a bale in the bale grab. He cut trough the twine and dropped the haybale in the wagon. We both watched as the bale was chewed up. Then I drove into the barn. Pulled a lever and slowly drove forward as the hay was pushed out the side straight into the feeding trough. I could drive straight out the doors on the other side and back to Dieter. He had stepped out of the Fendt and watched the cows eating the fresh food. Were it had spilled for a bit we pushed the feed a bit more into the trough. "Job done." I said. "That really works well." Dieter said. "And in the winter we can both sit inside if we want to. We will just have to teach you how to drive the Lindner." He went back inside for breakfast while I refilled the water for the cows out in the field. The jobs done I also went to eat breakfast. After breakfast I started cleaning out the chicken coop. It was dusty inside but they had cleared out the straw and everything when the last chickens left. Faster than expected the shed was clean and ready for new inhabitants. Halfway trough it started to rain. With the rain and the trees dropping the last of their leaves it was pretty clear autumn was allready on its way out. In the cold of the morning I could feel winter coming.

We kept an eye on the weather, waiting for a few clear days. We really did not want to let the last cut of grass go to waste. We had just moved the cows from the field into the barn when the forcast gave us two clear days. Cold but with some wind and sunshine. Enough for us if we worked hard. "You get the mower on the Lindner after breakfast." Dieter said when we were done with our morning jobs. So I ate and then went into the garage where the Lindner was parked. Keys in the ignition I pressed the clutch. The engine started and I released the parking brake. The direction lever was right behind the steering wheel. Putting it in forward and pushing the gas pedal we drove out of the shed. Stopping in front of the garage I opened the door. The tractor got angry and started beeping at me. On the display I could see that I forgot the parking brake. As I applied it the beeping stopped. Sliding the garage door up I saw the mower right at the frond. Behind the second door. After opening that door I reversed and lined the tractor up. Thas was the first time connecting something to the front. Leaing forward, I could just see one of the arms. Lowering them and driving slowly I got to the mower. Getting out to check I still was about twenty centimeters short. Crawling forward I got it about right and raised the front arms. The mower lifted a bit. Going back outside I connected the top link and PTO shaft. The hydraulic hoses went on the first group. With everything connected I reversed out of the shed and parked in front of the house.

That afternoon the grass was dry enough to start mowing. We got in the tractor together and started down the driveway. Just as we started going downhill a small van drove up to the yard. Dieter pretty much threw me from the passenger seat. The tractor beeping angrely because the door was open. "I have to get mowing." I could just hear as he closed the door and drove off. The van had stopped in front of the house and a man held up his hand. I waved at him in reply and walked over. "Some young chicks to see you." He said. I looked at him to see whether he was joking. But he was looking very serious. He opened the sidedoor of the van and I understood. The van was filled with chirping crates. "The chickens!" I said. "That was today." "Yes." He said. "Two hundered young female chicks and a couple of roosters." When Dieter came back from mowing I was just done with unloading the crates. The van had left, back to the animal dealer. One by one I picked the crates up, put it in the chicken coop and let the chicks out. My back was aching. The bags of food we had put in the shed so we could close the door when the chickens were out in the yard. Dieter stood at the door and looked at the little chicks running around or sitting together in small groups. Grethe came out of the house to watch. "Are the heat lamps on?" She asked. I went to the control panel and flipped the switch. Red lights came on and soon the chickens were sitting in the heated spots. "It is nice to have some chickens again." Grethe said. Dieter just nodded.

# Chapter 4
**Where we feel the winter/cut some trees/Drag small trees around/Meet another farmer**

In the mornings and evenings I was still pretty busy. First switching on the lights for the chikens. Then feeding the cows and mucking out the barn. After that back to the chicken coop. Feeding them, checking the water. I did not have look for eggs yet but they would start laying soon. The wind blowing down from the mountain was chilling me to the bone. Even though I started wearing another layer of clothes under my overalls. No snow yet but the trees had all shedded their leaves. Looking bare against the grey sky. In the afternoon it started to get dark when I started the evening chores. Again checking on the chickens. Milking and feeding the cows. Dieter and Grethe stayed mostly inside leaving me to run the farm. And I was slowly getting better at it. All the tractors had their maintenance done and we had put everything inside the sheds leving the yard looking very empty. Without Dieter thinking of chores like fixing fences or painting a siding I even had the middle of the day to myself. At first I could only chill in front of the tv or sitting at my laptop. The past week I had had some more energy. I even started thinking about unpacking my gaming rig and maybe setting up the gaming room. The heater I got for the room still inside its box.

With the chickens fed I got out of the coop looking forward to setting up my gaming room. Then I noticed the workshop door standing open and Dieter working on something inside. I put the bag of chicken feed back on the pallet and went over to look what he was doing. In the fluorescend light I saw a chainsaw lying in pieces on the workbench. A gas heater blowing hard in his direction for some warmth. "You better dress warm this afternoon." Dieter said, not looking up from his work. "The trees really need some thinning. I could not do that the last few years. But now with a strong young man around." I sighed. He really seemed to be looking forward to I. Leaving me no way to escape behind my computer. "I'm just checking the chainsaw and oiling the parts. You go get breakfast and I will see you later." Before I went back to the house I took a look at the trees behind the sheds. Big trees and smaller saplings were standing close together. Mostly spuce with a few oak and birch in some places. The brances so close that it was hard to see to which tree it belonged. Underneath it was dark with no other plants growing. I tried to get trough to look from the meadow a bit higher up the slope but with the trees so close I could not push trough. When one of the branches sprang back and hit me in the face I had enough and went for breakfast. 

After eating we met up at the workshop. Dieter pulled a new helmet with faceshield out of a box. "Early chrismas present for you. I see you allready know why." I felt the scratch on my face. I had not bled to much but there was a bright red welt on my cheek and the area around is was still getting more and more red. I put it on and Dieter also handed me some earplugs. "Ready to get to work?" I put my thumb up. We walked past the garage and went left in front of our bale storage. The first and second bay were full of haybales. The third was empty and in the fourth was a small box with a shovel and a light. Dieter pointed. "We used to put our saplings in there before planting them." To our left stood two bunks to put the logs. A small path went up to the trees that had hurt me this morning. "I will start cutting, you watch and drag the trees down." With a pull on the cord he started the chainsaw and went to work. The small trees went down first. With two cuts he made a v in the rear of each trunk before cutting them down from the front. This made the trees fall away from him. Then I grabbed the small tree, dragged it down and put them on a pile. The next tree already falling as I walked back up. On my way down I had to be careful not to trip on the small stumps sticking out of the ground. In about an hour we had made a lot of progress. Most of the smaller trees on the lower slope were gone with just a few left standing.

Dieter took off his helmet and wiped the sweat away with his hankerchif before blowing his nose in it. We had worked our way up to a small clearing with only a few trees. Because of the room they had these were green instead of brown like the ones we'd cut. "Your turn." He handed me the chainsaw. "Get one of the small trees off the pile and start cutting the branches off." I walked down to the pile and pulled one tree away from the rest. Then I put the saw down. Held it with one hand and pulled on the starte cord. The engine spluttered but did not start. Another pull, harder this time and it came alive. Dieter gave some instructions and I got to work. Starting from the bottom I cut each brance with as little movement as possible letting the saw do the work. When I got to the top my arms were hurting from the weight and vibrations. With my foot I turned the tree and started working on the last branches. Dieter pulled the next tree down and I started on that. Whenever I shook my arms or tried to get a bit of rest he was there with another tree. It felt like I was cutting for hours. We took a break for lunch and then went back at it. Now we switched the jobs. I would clear a couple of trunks and then Dieter took over the saw while I dragged the trees. After a couple of hours we had two piles. One big load of branches and one pile of cleaned logs.

One by one we picked up the trunks of the trees we'd cut and put them in one of the bunks. The sun had dissapeared behind the mountains on the other side of the valley when we finished. "Just one thing left to do. Dieter said picking up the chainsaw. He went over to the three small spruce in the clearing and cut them down. He pointed at the largest of them. "Put this one next to the pile of branches." The other two it dragged to the house as Dieter went looking for something in the sawmill. He came over with a box. Inside I found a string of lights and some ropes. Together we dug a hole and pushed the tree upright in front of the house. Then he used the ropes to secure the tree in place. Grethe called me from the open front door. "Can you help me inside?" Only the smallest tree was left. She held the door open while I dragged it inside. There was a stand standing ready in the living room and boxes everywhere. I put the tree in the stand and she started handing me decorations. When we were ready decorating the room it had gotten dark. Outside Dieter had also finished and there was a brightly lit Christmas tree standing outside the kitchen window.

The next morning a blue tractor with a trailer came up the driveway. A woman of about my age climbed out of the cab. Dieter stepped outside and the hugged him making me do a double take. She got back in the tractor and drove to the back of the yard. I saw a flash of a blonde hair in a ponytail sticking out of her cap. We walked over to the rear of the shed where she was already sitting on the crane on the front of the trailer. With the grabber she picked the branches up and put them in the trailer. Soon the pile was gone. Last she carefully picked up the last christmas tree and laid it down on top. Dieter and I got closer as she clambered off the trailer. "John, this is Lize. She is the owner of the farm in the next valley. And every year she comes over to pick up a christmas tree." "Nice to meet you." She held out her hand. Slim and about as tall as me she stood there smiling. I shook hands with her. "Has Dieter been working you to the bone?" She asked. "It's not too bad." I replied "But I did not know what I was getting into." "I can imagine. Going from a office job straight into farming. It is nice to finally meet you. There have been stories going around about this new farmer from the city." "Really?" I stammered. "Yes really, but now I have to get back. Trees don't decorate themselves." With that she got back in the cab an easly reversed and drove away with a wave in our direction. "You can close your mouth now." Dieter said walking off in the direction of the house.

# Chapter 5

**Where we clear out the sawmill/Meet the family/Have a moning off/Celebrate together**

The wind blew trough the shed leaving snow in corners and between boxes. I looked around at the white landscape. Winter had come just before Christmas. At first the nightly snow had melted by the end of the day. But soon it covered the ground just getting deeper with each fall. Clearing the yard every morning was added to my chores. Making paths with shovels and moving piles with the tractor. In the village brightly colored tourists walked around. Ski's on their back or with shopping bags from the botiques. More of them arriving with every train. It was strange to see the village waking up. Shops opening that I not even knew existed, the supermarked fully stocked. Even some apartments, dark all year now had the light of chrismas trees shining from the windows. When the snow first started to pile up suddenly a winter fair rose in the main park. Small brightly lit stalls selling hot chocolate and Gluhwine. In the distance I could see the cablecars going up and down the mountain. No doubt filled with tourists. The family of Grethe and Dieter had come over for christmas. Staying with us until new year. I could hear them in their rooms above me in the evenings.

And here I was looking at literal piles of work. The shed with the big saw had been used for storage the past years. Stuff that was not used anymore being thown in and trown about if something was suddenly needed. I had reversed the van close to the shed so I could put everything that had to go in the bed. This was not going to get better without some work so, with a sigh, I got to it. I picked up the first thing. Some siding for a shed. Rusty with some holes in it leaning against some other boxes. With a grunt I threw it in the back of the van. So I worked trough all the stuff making three piles. One for things we needed to keep. I even found some new sawbelts and a box of oil filters. The garbage went straight onto the van. The third pile was for stuff I could not identify or did not know I could trow away. What to do with a hobbyhorse that looked handmade? After lunch Dieter came with me to look at the third pile. Most of it I could trow away. I sighed in relief when he walked away with the hobbyhorse under his arm. What if he started picking in the trash. It was his old stuff I was throwing out. The van fully loaded I tied everything down and drove to the dumpsite a short drive outside town. When I got back it was dark already. I parked next to the shed. The headlight showing the work that was still left. Time for the evening chores.

Dieter came outside just as I finished. "I will take care of the morning jobs. You can sleep in tomorrow." "Okey, thank you." I said not sure where this was going. "No problem." He said walking back inside and closing the door. I was still puzzeled after I finished my dinner and the washing up. Still a morning off, that had been months ago. The next morning I woke op at the normal time. As I stepped out of bed and got dressed I remembered that I had the morning off. Instead I drank some water. As I was stading by the sink I heard small steps coming down the stairs and passing my room going further down. The front door opened and closed. Looking out the window I saw Dieter picking up his grandaughter. She was dressed in warm clothes wearing a big coat and earmuffs. They went towards the barn and out of sight. I saw them reappear carrying snowshovels. There was only a thin layer of fresh snow but they got to work clearing the paths. Dieter getting big shovels full and she walking behind "Helping". That done I heard the Lindner start and saw them sitting inside as it drove to the rear of the yard. Coming back they drove a bale in the cow shed and disappeared inside. Smiling I went back to bed.

A couple of hours later I was back at work in the shed. The big things had been done yesterday. As usual the last few things took the most work. There was a lot less to throw onto the pickup. I filled a wheelbarrow with some things we wanted to keep and took it to the garage. There I had to find a place for everything. The next load went into another shed. Dieter helped me sort everything and find places to put it. Erika came with him. The small girl diving into piles and finding interesting things. The daughter of Monica she was introduced to me hiding behind her mother. Now it seemed I was still scary but not scary enough to keep her away from granddad. Bonde hair peeking from under her hat she picked up a small box and carefully put it in the wheelbarrow. "Thank you." I said. That was enough to send her back to hinding behind Dieter. This way we spend the rest of the afternoon in the yard. Leaning on a broom I looked around. The sawmill was mostly empty. Black and yellow markings on the floor visible again. This used to be a well organized workspace. The saw was standing in the back corner with room for new logs right next to it. Bright orange it was like brand new. The other side of the sawmill was empty now. The markers seemed to show places to sort the different products. For now we would use the space to park the Fendt and the log carrier making room in the other sheds.

As I walked up the stairs to my room I heard the family having fun in the kitchen. The chores for the day were finished and I was looking forward to a shower and dinner. I took off my overalls and turned on the water. It always took a while to warm up. From the fridge I got a microwave dinner and poked some holes in the lid before putting it in the machine. Going back I took off the rest of my clothes and got into the shower. In the hot water I wondered whether I would say awake until midnight. I stepped out, dried myself off and put on some comfy clothes. Then the bell rang. I paused. I did not even know I had a bell. Outside stood Dieter and Erika. "Will you join us?" Dieter asked. "We have got raclette and there is some room left at the table." I stood in the opening thinking. "Please join us, Grethe and Monica would mind if you were up there alone." I put on my shoes and went with them. The kitchen table was loaded with plates of cheese and dishes with vegetables and small cuts of meat. In the middle stood a electric grill with small pans. Everyone was allready siting and I took a seat next to Peter, Monica's husband. A heavyset man a little balding, he scooted over to give me some more room. Monica sat next to him with Erika between her and Dieter. Grethe was still walking around getting this and that.

I got a beer and Grethe sat down as well. Everyone went quiet. Dieter raised his glas. "It has been a year for all of us. Selling the farm, retiring. Starting over in a new country. Family life with everthing that comes with it." He looked around the table before continuing. "Jasper is busy with his job, but I am sure he wanted to be here tonight." The others drummed on the table with their hands. "I will keep it short, John must be hungry." More table drumming, I had to join. "I am happy to be here with you all at the end of this year. It was a good one. Lets make the next one even beter. Prost!" We clinked our glasses together and eveyone started putting food in their little pans. Peter explained how to grill the food, the kinds of cheeses and when to put them on the other things. Soon we were talking about his job and how I got on at the farm. With dinner done we went to the living room to eat dessert and watch TV. We talked and ate until midnight and after campagne and some fireworks Peter had brought I went to bed. The next morning I fed the cows, tired and with a headache. But as the sun peeked over the mountains I did feel like this might just be a good year.

# Chapter 6

**Where we cut some big trees/Learn to use a crane/Load a trailer/unload the logs**

"We have to be careful today." Dieter said while we were walking. "Trees can be unpredictable. It is best to let experts do this but we want you to become an expert so today we will practice." I had my own chainsword now and Dieter carried his. "I will cut the trees down, you can take off the branches." I nodded. We arrived at the rear of the yard. With the small trees removed there was room for us to work. Today we would cut down some of the bigger trees still left and put them in the wood storage. The first one was a big spruce. As I looked at it towering over us I got a bit nervous. Nervous enough to not look where I was going. I tripped over a small stump and nearly set my chainsaw flying. He looked over his shoulder and my face heated up. Luckely my faceshield hid the colouring of my face. Dieter put the chainsaw down and took a good look at the tree and surrounding area. "You need to make a plan. There are two important parts. Where the tree will fall and where you will run if it goes wrong. Those need to be in different directions." He walked back from the tree checking where he could trip. "For now just watch." He said starting the saw. He made a v shaped cut on the uphill side of the tree. Then after checking I was reading he started the saw on the other side. Moving back and forth the saw slowly ate trough the wood. Some movement and quickly Dieter pulled the saw back and took a few rapid steps back. Creaking and groaning the tree leant more and more befor falling down, hitting the ground with a crash.

I went to work sawing off the branches of the felled tree. Dieter meanwhile was looking at a second tree a bit further on. I kept an eye on him as he cut some undergrowth to make room to work. My job was the same as with the smaller trees. Cut the branches starting at the bottom and working towards the top. Easy enough. As I cut one of the big lower limbs the saw got stuck and stopped. I tried to pull it out but it was held in place by the tree. Dieter saw me struggeling and came over. "Step back a couple of steps and watch." He started from the other side. As he came close to the stuck saw the branch snapped and he jumped back just as the tree rolled towards him. My chainsaw sprang loose and disappeard beneath the rolling mess. I had not noticed how much the tree leant on that limb. I went below the tree to retrieve my saw and Dieter went back to his work. Lesson learnt I workt a lot slower on the next cuts. Looking at the way the spruce lay and making plans to run away. My saw did get stuck a couple of times but after a while I started noticing the sound just before that happend and pulled back to change the angle. I kept an eye on Dieter and stopped working as he downed the second tree. This way we worked the rest of the morning. The white of the snow getting covered in green piles of spuce brances.

After lunch I drove the Lindner to the sawmill and reversed up to the yellow Anderson trailer parked inside. First connecting and securing the hitch I then went to work on the hydraulic hoses. Two times yellow on one group to supply the oil wite one yellow marked hose on the return. The same for the hoses marked green. With everyting connected I got back in the tractor and increased the engine rpm while opening the valves. This made the oil pump work harder and let everything warm up. Dieter walked up from the house and checked the connections. After he gave me the thumbs up I drove out of the shed and reversed towards the woods stopping at the edge of the yard. "I am going to cut the trees so they will fit. You can practice with the loader over here." I got out of the tractor and walked to front of the trailer. There was a small box with five leavers bolted to the frame. I had spend the last evening reading the manual for the loader. First I lowered the supports at the front of the frame. With these stabilizing the trailer I opened the grapple and raised the arm. I swung the arm back and forth to get a feel how fast it responded. Then I pretended there was a log next to the trailer I had to pick up. Playing around like this I heard the chainsaw suddenly stop. Dieter had got the saw stuck in the tree he was trying to cut to pieces and was waving for me to come over.

I walked up to him. "Think you can work with that crane?" He asked as I came closer. "I Think so." "Good, my saw is stuck because the tree is not toching the ground down here." Ik looked and there was a small depression in the slope underneath the tree. "Because it wants to break into that space it has put pressure on the saw causing it to get stuck." I went up to the tractor and raised the supports. Then I carefully backed up the hill with Dieter guiding me. Stopping next to the tree, I put the parking brake on and went out to lower the supports. That done I raised the crane en moved it over the tree. Lowering the front part of the arm I could reach the tree easely. I grabbed the trunk with the claw and lifted it just a little bit. With the stress taken off the cut Dieter could pull the saw out. He started it and started cutting. The trailer shook as the trunk split and one side fell to the ground. The other side was still hanging from my log fork. "Put it down and grab it in the middle." Dieter called as he stepped back. I did what he said. And started to lift. Now the log balanced as I raised it higher. Turning the crane I smashed it into one of the supports. I clearly misjudged the speed it could turn while loaded. A bit more slow and careful I turned the log and gently put it down at the bottom of the trailer. Then I picked up the other side of the tree and put it on the wagon.

I tried to reach the next log but it was just al little to far away. "Time to reposition." "I have raise the supports and drive the tractor after every piece?" I asked. "Yes," Dieter said "and then you have to lower them pick it up and do that all again. Without making mistakes. Just take it easy and do not expect to finish this today." With that he walked over to cut the next tree leaving me with the tractor. I straightened the arm and raised the supports. Got in the tractor and slowly drove forward. Got out lowered the stands. Picked up the thickest part of the tree en put it on top of the others. Then I had to do this all again except I had to reverse even further up the hill to reach the top part of the tree. Dieter meanhile had finished with the second tree. Carefully I drove back down and positioned to reverse up the hill in another place. With these logs loaded the trailer was full. I drove down to the bunks and unloaded them one by one. We continued loading and cutting. I was getting dark as we got to the last tree. I switched the worklights on. The forest lighting up and the snow sparkling around us. Dieter had to guide me to the last tree. The shadows and light making it nearly impossibe to see where I was diving. A wheel hit a stump the logs bouncing around in the trailer as the tractor pushed trough. I got back on the crane and with Dieter pointing and gesturing picked everything up. Unloading was easier. Floodlights lighting the bunks and me just having to put one tree on top of the others. I put the trailer back in the sawmill and Dieter went to clean and oil the chainsaws. We had finished it all in one day. Tired but happy I started the normal evening chores.

# Chapter 7

**Where we see the spring/Hire help/Load manure/Plant some trees**

The birds where singing when I woke up. It was the first time since the start of winter that I noticed. As I walked outside I could see the sky getting lighter. The snow in the yard had melted with only patches left under the trees. I shivered and quickly zipped up my coat. Spring may be on its way but the wind was still cold. The light brightend as I worked. First checking the food for the chickens and then mucking the cow barn and feeding the cows. Around the yard tree had started to show some green. Budding leaves making giving them a green haze. The winter had not been as quiet as I expected. The small and bigger jobs taking up all my time and leaving me tired in the evenings. My computer room was still a mess. I had unpacked but the machine was standing there not connected to the monitors I put on the desk. I parked the tractor in the shed and went over to the forrestry shed to start the Fendt. In the cold it took a couple of tries before it started. Sitting inside I let the engine and cabine warm up. With everything warm enough I put the machine in gear and drove to the shed to pick up the bucket. Angeling the front down I carefully fit the top bar in the hooks. This time I got it first time. Then I slowly tilted it up. The bottom connected with a snap. Putting the parking brake on I got out en secured the safety pins. All set to go. Just as I drove up to the house a green tractor and trailer came driving up beacons flashing. Right on time.

A couple of days before we had discussed the work for the coming months. This would be my first spring on a farm and I had no idea what was coming up. The first few months I just did was Dieter said had to be done and it was time I started looking ahead and making plans. We met in the kitchen downstairs. Dieter explaining while I made notes on my laptop. With such a small farm it was all small jobs but they had do be done at just the right time. To early or late and the work would go to waste. I thought i had bought the farm to get away from the stress. Getting back to my appartment I sat down to organise my notes and make a plan. A couple of hours later I got up. I stretched happy with my first version. It was strange to plan knowing that the weather could still change everything. Rain on the wrong days would mean changing everything. I picked up my phone and dialed the number from my notes. Lise picked up after a couple of rings. After the greetings I got to the point. "We have manure that needs to be spread on our fields. Dieter said that I should call you." :And did Dieter say anything else?" She asked. "No he did not, just told me to call you." It was silent for a bit. I thought I could hear a smile in her voice as she replied. "So he wants you to learn for yourself. At my expense." I did not understand what she was saying. "Send me a mail with the details. I'll write a quote and you can see what you think about it." "A quote?" I asked. "He really did not explain anything. We are contractors. You hire us to do a job and we send a bill." I suddenly understood what she was saying. "And Dieter dit not tell me this because he thought it was funny if I found out for myself."

"The man who thinks we work for free." The man said as he climbed out of the John Deere. "Oh no, is that going around?" "Yes it is." He replied shaking my hand. "Don't worrt Liz is sure to find a way to get Dieter back. My name is Robert. Nice to meet you." After introductions we made a plan. I drove the Fendt to the manure pit behind the cow. Robert got himself turned around and positioned the manure trailer for loading. To use the front loader it needed oil pressure. So I pushed the trottle lever forward and selected a low gear. With the lever I lowered the bucket and slowly drove in into the manure pile. With the lever I curled it up to pick up the load. Then I put the tractor in reverse, backed up. Switched back to forwards. Started driving forward while raising the arm so I could tip the manure into the trailer. Dieter came outside with a cup of coffee for Robert and they watched me having not enough arms and legs. In the machine I was trying to steer, change gear and control the arm at the same time. And I tried not to hit anything or tip over. With the trailer loaded I got out sweating. Robert climbed back in the green tractor and drove off. "I'll fill the next load." Dieter said. "You go get a drink." When I got back with my coffee Dieter was putting the second load in the trailer. In no time it was full and underway to the fields. We switched and I waited for Robert to come back.

I heard the tractor growling up the hill. Robert reversed and I started loading again. Driving back and forth, big buckets of manure went into the green spreader. Robert turned the engine off and sat waiting in the cab. After the last load I beeped the horn and he left again. I streched and filled the bucket before settling down to wait. He was working the field farthest away so it took him a little longer to get back. This load was the last and he waited for me as I put the Fendt at the pressure washer for cleaning. I then climbed into the John Deere and sat down on the passenger seat. Robert drove off. When we got to the field he opened the backboard. In the right position he pressed two switches. The first started the spreader. When he hit the second one the floor of the trailer started moving. Pushing the muck into the spreaders and throwing it on the field. In no time at all the trailer was empty. "Job done?" He asked. "I think so." I said looking at the grass covered in muck. He gave me the work order to sign and drove us back to the farm. "You need to get faster with the loader." He focused on the road while talking. "This should be about a two hour job." It was almost lunch. We had taken al lot more than two hours. "Get the little trailer and practice with it. Just fill and dump." He stopped in front of the driveway and I got out. "Make sure you clean the trailer well after practice." He drove off and I walked back to the house for a shower and food.

I was still eating when a small truck pulled up. Stuffing the last bites of the sandwitch in my mouth I went outside. The driver opened the back door and I saw crates of saplings. "The new trees." Dieter said coming out of the house. I unloaded the pallets and put them in a shed. A lot of the ground was still frozen zo we left them standing there. Later in the month we would plant them to replace what we cut down at the start of winter. After the truck drove away I went into the workshop and found the sideboards of the little Strautmann trailer. I attached it to the Buhrer and put the boards on. Changing it from a flatbed to a dumper. I drove it to the manurepit and walked back to pick the Fendt. The next hour was spend filling the trailer and dumping the manure back. The wagon was a lot smaller than the spreader. Every four or five buckets I had to get out, reverse the Bruher and empty the trailer. I did get a bit more familiar with the controls and a little faster at loading. Afterwards I cleaned the tractors and implements and put them back in their sheds.

# Chapter 8

**Where we mow the grass/Are very tired/Make bales/Have new calves arrive/Wrap the bales

 
